### Prompt #1: Why Government
5\. Understand the clash between the criticism of modern government and government as necessary. What are the criteria for determining whether government provides a good or service rather than having it provided by the private sector? (Market Failures)

#### Part 1: Response
“One of the primary responsibilities of government is to create and maintain good public order” (LH, 2). The public order here refers to national security, public safety, material prosperity and economic stability. From this perspective, the government is necessary. Criticism of government includes that the government is doing things it should not be doing, or not doing things it should be doing.
When it comes to the criteria for determining whether government provides a good or service rather than having it provided by the private sector, we can resort to the subsidiary principle, which states that the private sector has higher priority that the government, and government of a lower level has higher priority than that of a higher level, when decisions are to be made. It also indicates that “government action should be limited to situation where the private marketplace is unable to efficiently and equitably provide a good or service” (LH, 10).  In a free market economy, government should intervene only when there is a market failure, which emerges when public goods, monopolies, externalities, information asymmetries, and equity come into play.

#### Part 2: Application
U.S. Considers Cash Injections Into Banks
https://www.nytimes.com/2008/10/09/business/economy/10fed.html
The 2007-2008 financial crisis is a great example of market failure and government intervention. Because of deregulation of the financial industry, the private financial sectors took excessive risks and eventually faced a shortfall of liquidity. As a result, other companies and individuals are affected, but those financial sectors were not forced to pay for the price. This is an example of negative externality. Without government intervention, the whole economy could have gone down. In the article, “U.S. Considers Cash Injection Into Banks” by Edmund Andrews and Mark Landler, the story of Why the Treasury Department was considering injecting capital into major banks to restore the frozen credit markets how it did it, was told. Though the US financial market is a free market, the interference from government is still inevitable. In the wake of the crisis, regulatory oversight is expanded in the financial sector.
