Using evidence and examples from lecture, course readings and the video interview with the supreme court justices:

**1. Discuss how judicial review could be seen as an anti-majoritarian act. How does this conflict with democratic rule?**
Because courts in the US System have the power of judicial review, there is potential for judical power to be viewed as illegitimate because it could be counter-majoritarian, or otherwise, undemocratic. The counter-majorian notion is the balancing act to a familiar theme throught out this course of Tyranny of Majority (Hall, p. 2).
One example of the marjority of tyranny is the case of Korematsu v. United State (1944), where the majority mindset of the American public was wrong. In the case, Korematsu defied the President Roosevel' executive order, which forced Japanese Americans out of their homes and tinto internment camps during World War. At first, the courts rules against Korematsu on the ground that the government's action (the need to defend against espionage during wartime) met the standards of strict scrutiny (a form of judical review). However, the ruling proved to be unlawful and violated people's rights. In 1983, a federal district court in California used the new information to vacate Korematsu's conviction (MK, p. 460).
While judicial review has often been controversial, it has also often played a tremendous role in the bringing about, of or at least codifying, social changes in law - especially in the Civil Rights Era (Hall, 3).

**2. Describe the notion of judicial restraint and judicial activism and discuss how these competing ideas play in the idea of democratic rule vs tyranny of majority?**
This is an inherent legitimacy problem for courts in allegedly democratic systems. Some may see any decision by a small number of judges or justices as inherently undemocratic and therefore as inherently illegitimate. An additional problem of legitimacy comes from the differing views of those who think the courts should play a limited role in government versus those thing the court should play an active role. Those who believe the court should play a limited role defend the idea of judicial restraint and hold that the courts should overturn the elected branches of government reluctantly and as a last resort. Those who believe it is appropriate for the courts to weigh in on serious and controversial social and political questions will defend the idea of judicial activism. This is a vigorous approach to reviewing the other branches of government (Hall, p. 2).
In the Video, Conversation on the Constitution, Justice Breyer expressed that both groups (active or restraint) believe that the Constitution sets up a system for people to decide what to do through democratic process. He further said, "Now those boundaries are interested among other things in protecting individuals, minorities, others, from the tyranny of the majority" (Video, 13:20). No matter what ideas people hold on judicial system, the way they interpret the Constitution is always to serve the Democracy.
