**PROMPT POSSIBILITY #1: Instructor Lecture A World View and A State of Nature**
Answer the following prompt in 3 robust paragraphs: Using the lecture material, explore the central components of the social contract theories of Thomas Hobbes and John Locke and make an application to current events today. A quality essay will have a clear thesis and will address the following:
1. Explore how each author's enlightenment approach to understanding politics was a break from the world view established in the "Great Chain of Being" and examine the connections between the writers' historical/cultural/personal environments and its influence on the development of their political philosophies.
2. Compare and contrast the similarities and differences of each author's notion of the state-of-nature, the social contract, the king, property, political power, religion and forms of government.
3. Using current events reviewed in our discussions, or current events you're following in major news sources, provide an example of how you see government in the U.S. or government systems around the world, taking on the role of Hobbes's "Leviathan" OR Locke's notion of "classical liberalism".

#### Response
As the Europe entered the 16th century, the idea of the "Great Chain of Being" fit less and less with the realities and was beginning to experience six new challenges: Renaissance Humanism, the rise of centrally government national states, the invention of the print press, the discovery of the New World, the protestant Reformation and the rational and scientific revolutions. These challenges combined with the 17th century lay the historical context for Thomas Hobbes and John Locke to author a new work view social contract theory, in which what form of government is justified and why government is necessary are discussed. Though both of them used the idea of social contract, they interpreted differently on the issues of human nature, the relationship between the people and the sovereign, and the individual rights and the role of the government in protecting those rights. The differences between their worldview are due to their individual experiences. Hobbes was 54 at the beginning of the English Civil War and alarmed by the revolutionary upheavals. He argued that the absolute rule by a king was the only way to ensure peace and prosperity. He also lived through the beheading of the king and saw a newly created republic that bore worse abuse of power than had existed under the former king. For Locke, he witnessed a new king sign and English Bill of Rights and a rational negotiation between a parliament and king. He believed that government was mainly necessary to promote the public good and should be overturned should the government failed violate the natural rights of individuals.
Both the philosophers came with the idea of social contract and deemed government is necessary because of human nature. However, they have different interpretation on human nature. Hobbes painted the human nature as egotistical, competitive, and brutal. According to Hobbes, humans are not guided by reason and moral ideals but by animalistic instincts, a ruthless struggle for self-preservation, and a perpetual and restless desire for power. He believed humans can only save themselves from destroying each other by entering into a political contract which they agree to live in a commonwealth tightly ruled by a power sovereign, and he posits that ruler should be absolute and unlimited in their powers. On the contrast, John Locke theorized that the state of nature was a place where humans lived in a state of equality and freedom rather than a state of war. According to Locke, the natural rights of individuals limited the power of the king. The king did not hold absolute power, but acted only to enforce and protect the natural rights of the people. If a sovereign violated these rights, the social contract was broken and the people had the right to revolt and establish a new government.
North Korea is considered to be a typical autocracy as its government is controlled by a single autocratic dictator with unchecked power. In a 2018 human rights report by Bureau of Democracy, Human Rights and Labor, a number of serious human rights issues are listed, which include "unlawful or arbitrary killings by the government; forced disappearances by the government..." ("Country Reports on Human Rights Practices for 2018", 2018). In North Korea, ordinary people have little or no freedom of speaking ideas other than those in state media's propaganda. Because no one can hold the ruler Kim Jong-un account for his action, he literally does whatever he desires to gain political and financial interests. In his treatise Leviathan, Hobbes likened the leviathan to a government of absolute power. He advocated absolute and unlimited power for rulers to impose order. In doing that, individuals rights are relentlessly violated. According this report, North Korea is again proved to be a such government, like the Leviathan.

Citation
Country Reports on Human Rights Practices for 2018 (Rep.). (n.d.). Retrieved https://www.state.gov/j/drl/rls/hrrpt/humanrightsreport/index.htm?year=2018&dlid=289053#wrapper
